LAB

Creating a Static Website with S3

Step 1: Create a Bucket
Navigate to the S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.
Click Create bucket.
Provide a unique bucket name. Your bucket name should reflect your domain name if you plan to use one (e.g., www.example.com).
Select a Region that is closest to your expected visitors for the best performance.
Make sure to uncheck and disable Block all public access and acknowledge that the bucket will be publicly accessible, then leave the rest as the default settings.
Click Create bucket.
Step 2: Upload Site Files to Your Bucket
Open your newly created bucket by clicking on its name.
Download error.html and newstory.html from https://github.com/pluralsight-cloud/Amazon-S3-Deep-Dive.
Click Upload.
Click Add files to select your website files (error.html and newstory.html HTML files).
Click Upload.
Step 3: Make Your Bucket Content Publicly Accessible
Go to the Permissions tab of your bucket.
Click Edit in the Bucket policy section.
Enter a bucket policy that grants public read access to your website files. Here’s an example policy (replace your-bucket-name with your actual bucket name):
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [{
    "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
    "Effect": "Allow",
    "Principal": "*",
    "Action": "s3:GetObject",
    "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name/*"
  }]
}
Click Save changes.
Step 4: Enable Static Website Hosting
With your bucket open, click the Properties tab.
Scroll down to find the Static website hosting option and click Edit.
Select Enable.
For the Index document, enter the name of your homepage file (e.g., newstory.html). If you have a custom error page, you can also specify an Error document (e.g., error.html).
Click Save changes.
Step 5: Test the Website URL
Go back to the Properties tab and find the Static website hosting section.
You will see a Bucket website endpoint URL (e.g., http://your-bucket-name.s3-website-region.amazonaws.com).
Copy and paste the URL into your web browser to test your static website.
To test that the custom error page is functional, add some characters to the end of the URL (e.g., http://your-bucket-name.s3-website-region.amazonaws.com/abc123).